Thank you so much for participating. Here we are all here for effort and thank you so much.
And again we are going to continue through the teaching and as we always, or I mean not we,
in the teaching, see that it's activated or with the motivations and increasing or rising up our
motivations.
With that motivation, we're studying, we're contemplating, we're meditating or practicing.
So that's so important as a foundation. It's so important of center columns.
Also it is so important to fulfill the goal and reach on fruit of the practices.
So those are so important. We just told and that those are suggested and then the joy and the
appreciations.
And then vastness motivation of the bodhicata. Actually of all there's two bodhicata.
Absolute bodhicata and relative bodhicata. But this time we're highlighting of the vastness
motivation of the bodhicata,
which is relative to the bodhicata. Relative bodhicata is, then of course, we all know,
is vast union of the compassion and the vastness. And what the teaching said,
compassion is projected into all the beings. Seeing the situation and the circumstances
and challenges every living being is going through or going through that.
And so really strong compassion and a very sensible, strong compassion, like to help to all
sentient beings.
But even though we like to help and support that, we don't have the capabilities to help and
supporting.
We are like this in the teaching always. We're like kind of like handcuffed mother.
The hair, dear child is losing in the river. When high chair is losing in the water or river and
handcuffed mother can't do anything.
She feels so strongly like to do something, but we don't have any capabilities.
So that for that reason to kind of get wise ourself and then like to get enlightenment.
To do the enlightenment, to remove the old obscurations of ourself.
Projecting like to help to all beings. That I like to remove all the obscurations, obstacles.
And that's why I can get enlightenment can benefit for all sentient beings.
With pervasive continuation and spontaneously I'm going to benefit for all living beings.
I mean that attitude, the intention, all strongly and rooted up there.
And that is an honor related to bodhicata. Of course, we all know this.
Relate to bodhicata. Relate to bodhicata is.
Then practice like waking bodhicata is a practice by the poor, boundless practice.
Again, we all know this.
And when we are kind of activating bodhicata in those great masters, always say the word.
Say that kind of equalize us.
All the sentient beings ourselves are equal.
We are all equal. Same way.
All, every aspect we are really equal.
So bring more equal, equal limited attitude in the heart and mind.
And what is that?
Actually when you put the practices.
Practices among the poor, boundless.
The poor, boundless.
May all living beings are free from the attachments to the close ones, rejection to the others.
Others, that is economic practice.
But economically we are all equal.
We are all the same.
Same. The sameness attitude is so important in the teaching set.
Because our ego claiming always we feel important with the first.
First and all the others are seconds.
We've been doing that from the biggest times according to the teaching.
But now we are really reversing.
Genuine compassion in the heart and mind.
We are all equal.
Those are in the practice teachings in bodhicata what called.
Cause we equalize, equal.
All we equal. We all bring up equal.
We like happiness.
Everybody likes happiness.
We like peace.
Everybody likes peace.
We like not get suffering.
Or we don't like suffering.
Everybody don't like suffering.
So our feelings level and technical desire.
And then where we are.
And we share the common ground of this world.
And every level we are equal.
And that part is the equanimity.
Many times in the teaching set according literature, the poor bornless are listed as first love.
Then second bornless love.
Bornless, completely second.
And third is bornless joy.
Joy in the fourth is equanimity.
But when we put it in practice, always in the teaching mentioned.
Many greatest marks may both bring more attitude of the equalized thought.
Intention.
When we are more kind of equally taught.
Then compassion.
And loving kindness comes more easily in the teaching set.
Those are practices.
Practices like instructions.
Practical is kind of like their spirit or their instructions.
So then we really will have love.
And then joy all comes.
And then second is.
But in the practices what in the teaching set.
Then the others are more important than the one's own self.
One's own self.
First equal.
Second, others are more important than us.
That means that our ego cling is going down.
Self-importance went down.
Instead of all our habit pattern, we are more important.
Our self, according habit pattern.
But now we are reversing.
Reversing that.
And that never happened in the history of our birth, according to the teaching.
Until we meet the teaching of the Buddha.
Others are more important than us.
So we reverse that.
Before that, we are more important than others.
Now we reverse.
Others are more important than us.
With this thought.
And then this thought born less.
May all living with happiness and cause happiness.
Have that recited.
Like coming back and all according to the teaching.
Again, great master.
Relax and say that.
Then taking that all our joy and our happiness and everything.
I share with everyone to make happy.
All that.
Really with that thought.
May all living with that happiness.
Cause of happiness.
Sincerely thinking.
The others are more important with that attitude.
And sharing our joy and peace, happiness.
Our marriage always.
All the marriage that all goes to them.
So they have forever joy and peace, happiness.
And then jhans suggest.
May all living with that.
Free from sufferings.
Cause of sufferings.
Jhans that and all their suffering.
The difficult troubles.
Are you bringing in.
To yourself.
In.
So no more sufferings.
No more difficult.
Challenge the left.
To anyone outside.
And join the praise of.
This poem called boneless praise.
Boneless compassion.
Compassion is.
Particularly projected for the different.
Troubles of this living.
All the sentient beings.
So may all living beings are.
Free from sufferings.
And cause of sufferings.
Not just suffering.
But cause of sufferings.
And that is what in the Buddha teaching.
Suffering truth.
Cause of suffering truth.
Pwn over truth.
Pwn to truth.
We are completely uprooting.
May all living beings are free from suffering.
Suffering is.
Suffering truth.
Difficulty troubles all sentient beings.
That go through.
And cause of suffering.
Cause of suffering truth.
So samsara cause.
And samsara resolve.
If they are gone.
Samsara is gone.
If there is no cause of suffering.
There is no cause of suffering.
Then there is no suffering.
And samsara is gone.
Eliminated.
So that uprooting that with that attitude.
Poor intention but strongly in heart and mind.
And giant.
May all living beings are free from suffering.
Cause of suffering.
And we find that even put in the teaching say.
Even for one minute or one second.
Whatever it takes time to giant that great.
And sincerely thinking that in heart.
Really thinking.
It is so powerful.
To remove obscurations.
Our obstacles.
Our troubles.
And gain man.
Man.
So powerful.
I mean we and also in the teaching said.
We need the life sort of those.
Great teaching Buddha.
When you are supposed to.
Reaching enlightenment.
Working for the enlightenment.
And how many times.
I mean even Buddha.
In the teaching said.
If he had attitude toward of the in.
When he was born in Hellerems.
Hellerems.
And he and his friends are pulling.
The iron chariot.
The border.
And others are so weak.
Can't pull.
But.
But those agents of the Hellerems are beating him.
And Buddha feels so compassion.
Compassion.
But he don't have.
Stand up.
Why are they beating him?
And I'm going.
May.
I'm going to tell you.
That whole thing is myself.
I will tell you over there.
In his positions.
That is in the teaching said.
Big enough of his body.
But also that is.
Eco light.
People are both are eco.
And he can't even up his.
He himself.
To the front runner.
So he changed.
Attitude.
That moment in the teaching said.
Because of that put it by the other obstacles.
Obscuration.
And karma to be born in that places.
And then he changed.
How powerful is.
But.
For the particular.
So good.
Body.
Thinking of this.
This truly sincerely.
In the heart.
Is so powerful in the teaching.
They say.
So powerful.
It heals.
The all the emotions.
Put it by the negativity.
Accumulate the merits.
Instant.
That is.
Eco light this.
And then this is again.
I see.
It's just the beginning of the body.
Get.
Before we say.
So.
Always.
We are self important.
Energy.
And now.
We are.
Changing that positions.
Because it's more important.
With that.
Then.
Same way.
They all living with have.
Have always happiness.
Call of happiness.
That means.
We are happy.
We wish.
We.
They are always happy.
Because we are praying.
How we can count.
All your joy.
And your activity.
My activity.
Your practices.
Or now they become more happy.
And the joy.
I am so happy.
Fulfilling the goal.
Of the waking of the body.
That is.
So powerful attitude.
It's free from.
Jealousness.
And also it's so pure.
Pure waking that.
It's so powerful in the teaching.
Say.
Even one core intention of that tool.
It was hungry bird.
Ourself.
In heaven.
And glorified bird.
To the lower ends.
Or the cause to bird.
Lower ends.
That moment.
So.
Those are already known as.
Bodhicata.
And which is.
Relate to bodhicata.
Is.
The foundation of our practices.
Always say.
The teaching.
If we have the bodhicata.
Then we do the doki practice.
Absolute to bodhicata.
Then it becomes so powerful.
But if we don't have the relate to bodhicata.
And the practice of doki.
That's absolute to bodhicata.
It's kind of almost like.
Not exactly making up.
It's not really completely.
100% full.
It's like 50.
50 or 6% full.
But.
40% or 60%.
It's like.
It's out.
So they have the full bloom of the documentary.
The practice.
Is really.
Bodhicata.
Is so important.
Of course.
We all heard this so many times.
We know already.
But also is always important.
Reminder to each other.
So that we can strengthen.
Meetings of the heavy habit patterns.
Of the emotions.
Raging every direction.
And they are really like.
As in the teaching.
As in we are in the jaw of the emotions.
Ourself.
We are always in the jaw of the.
Any moment.
Any those jaw can bite us.
Anger.
Yellows.
Hated thoughts.
Attachment.
That can really bite us.
So strong with them.
And then we again.
Become victims of the emotion.
Instead we are releasing a defeat.
And the negative emotions.
Become the victim.
So therefore.
To reminding.
Refreshing the memory.
And re-strengthen of this.
As the known as.
Part of the practices.
That is how we practice.
With this thought.
And then.
Again of course.
The motivation.